RELEASE News of rcssserver3d-0.7.3

New changes in 0.7.3:

* Rule Changes:
    - Changing pass mode so that a team can score after their pass mode has
      ended as soon as multiple players from the team have touched the ball
      with at least one touch coming after the ball has traveled outside the
      location of the pass mode opponent protection circle when pass mode
      was active.
    - Making is so that touching and illegal defense penalties are no longer
      penalized by beaming but instead players are repositioned on the field
      to appropriate locations.  Also fixing up the safe repositiong code a
      little to be more efficient and to directly account for players' positions
      after they have been desiganted to be repositioned to new locasitons when
      repositioning other players.  Additionally making repositioning a little
      safer by not moving players inside a goal or too close to the ball.
    - Extending the automatic referee for charging fouls so that they can
      be called between any two agents colliding instead of only within groups
      of two agents (they would never be called for larger groups of touching
      agents). Also taking the average position of all current collision points
      between two agents colliding instead of just the most recent evaluated
      collision point when determing if charging has occurred.
    - Checking both current and updated (being moved this simulation step)
      player and ball positions before allowing pass mode to be activated.
      Also preventing a team from activating pass mode if they're currently
      touching the ball as doing so will result in the undesireable behavior
      of pass mode immediately ending before it really starts.

* Bug Fixes:
    - Fix calibration error in robot frame of reference and applied to all 
      spherical coordinates.
    - Fixing bug where illegal defense was sometimes not being called or
      was removing the wrong player from the penalty area.
    - Fixing potential segfault that can happen when evaluating touch groups
      with goalies and agents that have enforceable fouls. Also removing
      unused varaible that was causing a warning.
    - Fix issues with touch groups and touching fouls where incorrect agents
      were sometimes penalized and groups of agents touching larger than the
      allowed size might not be penalized at all.
      
* Other Changes:
    - Reformatting code a litle to have more standard indentations -- no
      functional changes.
    - Moving some of the state values for determining when a team can
      score after pass mode from SoccerRuleAspect to GameStateAspect,
      and sending information needed for reporting the status of pass
      mode and related scoring eligibility to the monitor.

You can get the package on the Simspark page on Gitlab
at https://robocup-sim.gitlab.io/SimSpark/
