RELEASE News for different forums                        -*- outline -*-

* Overview
 ** [Soccer Lists]
 ** [General (SF Project News etc)]

* Content

** [Soccer Lists]


we have just released the rcssserver3D-0.5. This release introduces a
few new features, and also some bugfixes (and probably some new bugs
:).

Important new features and fixes are listed at the end of the
mail. For details have a look into the ChangeLog. Besides the usual
.tar.gz file, we've also created a rpm package (build on a SuSE 10
system). If all goes well, and you installed all the necessary
packages, you can just skip the recompiling this time :). You can find
both at the usual location on SourceForge [1].

(For the rpm, you'll have to use the rpm "--nodeps" option, and don't
forget to update the rcssserver3D.rb file in your home directory
manually).

This time, creating the new release has been extremely stressful,
because many of the contributing authors were also involved in the
qualification. To finish his thesis, Joschka passed back the
maintenance torch to me :)

To get a stable and better documented version of the simulator for the
competition, we need your help. Here's the outline of the plans for
the next 2 or 3 weeks:

- we get rid of bugs by the patches and bug reports you guys send
  to us or to the mailing list. We really need your help :) as we have all 
  our projects we're supposed to work on. Also, information about 
  parameter settings would really be helpful (how wide should the view 
  angle be, etc. Please use the mailing list to discuss.)
- I know that the documentation is far from optimal, so please help us 
  making it better. Jan <murray@uni-koblenz.de> has already started to 
  write and collect information, but any help is really appreciated. 

  What I really don't want is that you wait telling us the bugs until
  you appear on RoboCup. This makes me feel stupid ;-) and even worse
  everybody else works with a buggy system. 
  
- The last (but important) point is that we didn't manage to implement a 
  new timer yet (to unplug Spades). We are planning to do that from now 
  until March 20, where we want to release a version with a fixed timer, 
  all the bugs removed, plus the documentation you help us to write.

If you think these changes are late, you might be right, but please
see that we are working on the 2007 version at the same time (which we
plan to show on RoboCup). If you are worried about the late changes,
please have a look at the midsize mailing list and relax (SCNR ;-).

With the last two releases of rcssserver3D, new authors got involved
(e.g. for this version, many parts are contributed by Hesham
<heshamebrahimi@gmail.com>). With the additional contributions from
the development competition we expect to get a pretty nice system for
RC2007 shortly after RC2006.

for the maintenance comittee
Oliver

* Features (soccer):

- Goalies. 
  Players with uniform number '1' can catch the ball using the (catch) 
  command. 
- A restricted vision perceptor, so that not all other agents are
  visible at the same time. With this perceptor, the communication
  introduced in the 0.4 release becomes important.
- The offside and some other rules have been cleaned up and some bugs
  have been removed. Also, files that have been missing in the
  0.4. release are now present.
- rcssmonitor3D-lite looks a little more interesting now, and 
  some bugs with the random number generators have been fixed.

* Features (general):

- a couple of new physics functions have been added, general simulation 
  settings have been fixed. This doesn't change the current soccer 
  simulation, but is important for the general simulator.

[1] http://sourceforge.net/projects/sserver/


** [General (SF Project News etc)]

we have just released rcssserver3D-0.5. 

rcssserver3D is a multi-agent simulation system for physical agents in
three-dimensional environments. It features a flexible application
framework and a scene description language for setting up different
kinds of simulations. The soccer simulation built on top of this will
be used for the 3D Simulation League competition on RoboCup 2006 
(see http://www.robocup2006.org/).

Important new features:

- Goalies. 
  Players with uniform number '1' can catch the ball using the (catch) 
  command. 
- A restricted vision perceptor, so that not all other agents are
  visible at the same time. With this perceptor, the communication
  introduced in the 0.4 release becomes important.
- The offside and some other rules have been cleaned up and some bugs
  have been removed. Also, files that have been missing in the
  0.4. release are now present.
- rcssmonitor3D-lite looks a little more interesting now, and 
  some bugs with the random number generators have been fixed.

* Features (general):

- a couple of new physics functions have been added, general simulation 
  settings have been fixed. This doesn't change the current soccer 
  simulation, but is important for the general simulator.


For details have a look into the ChangeLog coming with the package.

You can get the package on the Soccer Simulator page on SourceForge
at http://sourceforge.net/projects/sserver/

cheers
Oliver Obst

